# Path-Finder
Now your task is to build an AI route finder. You are given a data file (tubedata.csv) in CSV format with the London
Tube map (which is not necessarily an up-to-date or complete map). The Tube map is defined in terms of a logical
relation Tube “step”. If you open the data file with any text editor, you will see the content of the file as:

Harrow & Wealdstone, Kenton, Bakerloo, 3, 5, 0

Kenton, South Kenton, Bakerloo, 2, 4, 0

···
Bank/Monument, Waterloo, Waterloo & City, 4, 1, 0

Each row in the CSV file represents a Tube “step” and is in the following format:

[StartingStation], [EndingStation], [TubeLine], [AverageTimeTaken], [MainZone], [SecondaryZone]

where:

• StartingStation: a starting station

• EndingStation: a directly connected ending station

• TubeLine: the tube line connecting the stations above

• AverageTimeTaken: the average time, in minutes, taken between the starting and the ending station

• MainZone: the main zone of the starting station

• SecondaryZone: the secondary zone of the starting station, which is 0 if the station is only in one zone. Note:

if the secondary zone is 0, use the main zone to define the zone for the ending station; otherwise, use the
secondary zone.

Throughout this coursework, you may find it helpful to refer to the London Tube map at:

https://content.tfl.gov.uk/large-print-tube-map.pdf

The preferred way to load the data is using the pandas Python library method read csv with the parameter
header=None using the process tubedata method in the search.py file attached to this coursework.
Note that in the labs, we used the NetworkX library for graph visualisation. But in this CW you should not use it
in the code you submit. You may use it to debug your code, but your final submission should NOT include any use
of the NetworkX library.

You are given the file called search.py. In this file you will implement seven python functions. The function called
process tubedata is already implemented and you should not change it at all.

• For the first function you will implement the “breadth first search” algorithm. The function is called
bfs route finder. This function takes as input arguments the starting station, the end station, and the
station dictionary (generated by process tubedata). The function outputs the path from the starting station
to the end station as a list of station names.

• For the second function you will implement the “depth first search” algorithm. The function is called
dfs route finder. This function takes as mandatory input arguments the starting station, the end station,
and the station dictionary (generated by process tubedata). The function outputs the path from the starting
station to the end station as a list of station names.

• For the third function you will implement the “uniform cost search” algorithm. The function is called
ucs route finder. This function takes as input arguments the starting station, the end station, and the
station dictionary (generated by process tubedata). The function outputs the lowest-cost path from the
starting station to the end station as a list of station names.

• For the fourth function you will implement a UCS algorithm that also considers the cost of changing lines
at stations. The function is called ucs route finder with added cost for changing lines. This function
takes as input arguments the starting station, the end station, and the station dictionary (generated
by process tubedata). The function outputs the lowest-cost path from the starting station to the end station
as a list of station names, considering that each time a line is changed at a station the cost increments by 10
minutes.

• For the fifth function you will implement a “heuristics bfs” algorithm. The function is called heuristic bfs.
This function takes as input arguments the starting station, the end station, the station dictionary (generated
by process tubedata), and the zone information (also generated by process tubedata). The function outputs
the lowest-cost path from the starting station to the end station as a list of station names, considering a heuristic
of your choice that uses the zone information in the zone dict dictionary.

• For the sixth function you will implement a “path length counter”. The function is called count visited nodes.
This function takes as input a “path” as list of station names, and calculates its length.

• For the seventh function you will implement a “travel cost calculator”. The function is called
calculate travel costs. This function takes as input the station dictionary (generated by process tubedata)
and a “path” as list of station names. It uses station dict to calculate the total cost (i.e. travel time) of a
given path.
